.TH "matchpathcon_checkmatches" "3" "21 November 2009" "sds@tycho.nsa.gov" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
matchpathcon_checkmatches, matchpathcon_filespec_add, matchpathcon_filespec_destroy, matchpathcon_filespec_eval \- check and report whether any specification index has no matches with any inode. Maintenance and statistics on inode associations
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "void matchpathcon_checkmatches(char *" str ");"
.sp
.BI "int matchpathcon_filespec_add(ino_t " ino ", int " specind ", const char *" file ");"
.sp
.BI "void matchpathcon_filespec_destroy(void);"
.sp
.BI "void matchpathcon_filespec_eval(void);"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR matchpathcon_checkmatches ()
checks whether any specification has no matches and reports them.
The
.I str
argument is used as a prefix for any warning messages.
.sp
.BR matchpathcon_filespec_add ()
maintains an association between an inode
.I ino
and a specification index
.IR specind ,
and checks whether a conflicting specification is already associated
with the same inode (e.g. due to multiple hard links). If so, then
it uses the latter of the two specifications based on their order in the 
.I file
context configuration. Returns the specification index used or \-1 on
error.
.sp
.BR matchpathcon_filespec_destroy ()
destroys any inode associations that have been added, e.g. to restart
for a new filesystem.
.sp
.BR matchpathcon_filespec_eval ()
displays statistics on the hash table usage for the inode associations.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns zero on success or \-1 otherwise.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " matchpathcon "(3), " matchpathcon_index "(3), " freecon "(3), " setfilecon "(3), " setfscreatecon "(3)"
