.TH "security_get_boolean_names" "3" "15 November 2004" "dwalsh@redhat.com" "SELinux API Documentation"
.SH "NAME"
security_load_booleans, security_set_boolean, security_commit_booleans, 
security_get_boolean_names, security_get_boolean_active,
security_get_boolean_pending \- routines for manipulating SELinux boolean values
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int security_load_booleans(char *" path ");"
.sp 
.BI "int security_get_boolean_names(char ***" names ", int *" len ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_get_boolean_pending(const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_get_boolean_active(const char *" name ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_set_boolean(const char *" name ", int " value ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_set_boolean_list(size_t " boolcnt ", SELboolean *" boollist ", int " permanent ");"
.sp
.BI "int security_commit_booleans(void);"
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The SELinux policy can include conditional rules that are enabled or
disabled based on the current values of a set of policy booleans.
These policy booleans allow runtime modification of the security
policy without having to load a new policy.  

The SELinux API allows for a transaction based update. So you can
set several boolean values and then commit them all at once.

.BR security_load_booleans ()
loads policy boolean settings. Path may be NULL, in which case the
booleans are loaded from the active policy boolean configuration file.

.BR security_get_boolean_names ()
provides a list of boolean names, currently supported by the loaded policy.

.BR security_get_boolean_pending ()
returns the pending value for boolean or \-1 on failure.

.BR security_get_boolean_active ()
returns the active value for boolean or \-1 on failure.

.BR security_set_boolean ()
sets the pending value for boolean 

.BR security_set_boolean_list ()
saves a list of booleans in a single transaction.

.BR security_commit_booleans ()
commits all pending values for the booleans.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Where not otherwise stated, functions described in this manual page return
zero on success or \-1 on error. 
.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux (8),
.BR getsebool (8),
.BR booleans (8),
.BR togglesebool (8)
