.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Author: Eamon Walsh (ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov) 2007
.TH "selabel_lookup" "3" "18 Jun 2007" "" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
selabel_lookup \- obtain SELinux security context from a string label
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/label.h>
.sp
.BI "int selabel_lookup(struct selabel_handle *" hnd ,
.in +\w'int selabel_lookup('u
.BI "char **" context ,
.br
.BI "const char *" key ", int " type ");"
.in
.sp
.BI "int selabel_lookup_raw(struct selabel_handle *" hnd ,
.in +\w'int selabel_lookup_raw('u
.BI "char **" context ,
.br
.BI "const char *" key ", int " type ");"
.in
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selabel_lookup ()
performs a lookup operation on the handle 
.IR hnd ,
returning the result in the memory pointed to by 
.IR context ,
which must be freed by the caller using
.BR freecon (3).
The 
.I key
and
.I type
parameters are the inputs to the lookup operation and are interpreted according to the specific backend that 
.I handle
is open on.

.BR selabel_lookup_raw ()
behaves identically to 
.BR selabel_lookup ()
but does not perform context translation.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOENT
No context corresponding to the input 
.I key
and
.I type
was found.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I key
and/or
.I type
inputs are invalid, or the context being returned failed validation, or a
regular expression in the database failed to compile.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
An attempt to allocate memory failed.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Eamon Walsh <ewalsh@tycho.nsa.gov>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selabel_open (3),
.BR selabel_stats (3),
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
.BR selinux (8)
