.TH "selabel_lookup_best_match" "3" "05 May 2015" "Security Enhanced Linux" "SELinux API documentation"

.SH "NAME"
selabel_lookup_best_match \- obtain a best match SELinux security
context \- Only supported on file backend.
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.br
.B #include <selinux/label.h>
.sp
.BI "int selabel_lookup_best_match(struct selabel_handle *" hnd ,
.in +\w'int selabel_lookup_best_match('u
.BI "char **" context ,
.br
.BI "const char *" key ,
.br
.BI "const char **" links ,
.br
.BI "int " type ");"
.in
.sp
.BI "int selabel_lookup_best_match_raw(struct selabel_handle *" hnd ,
.in +\w'int selabel_lookup_best_match_raw('u
.BI "char **" context ,
.br
.BI "const char *" key ,
.br
.BI "const char **" links ,
.br
.BI "int " type ");"
.in
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selabel_lookup_best_match ()
performs a best match lookup operation on the handle
.IR hnd ,
returning the result in the memory pointed to by
.IR context ,
which must be freed by the caller using
.BR freecon (3).
The \fIkey\fR parameter is a file path to check for best match using zero or
more \fIlink\fR (aliases) parameters. The order of precedence for best match is:
.RS
.IP "1." 4
An exact match for the real path (\fIkey\fR) or
.IP "2." 4
An exact match for any of the \fIlink\fRs (aliases), or
.IP "3." 4
The longest fixed prefix match.
.RE
.sp
The \fItype\fR parameter is an optional file \fImode\fR argument that should
be set to the mode bits of the file, as determined by \fBlstat\fR(2).
\fImode\fR may be zero, however full matching may not occur.

.BR selabel_lookup_best_match_raw ()
behaves identically to
.BR selabel_lookup_best_match ()
but does not perform context translation.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOENT
No context corresponding to the input
.I key
and
.I type
was found.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I key
and/or
.I type
inputs are invalid, or the context being returned failed validation, or a
regular expression in the database failed to compile.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
An attempt to allocate memory failed.
.sp
.SH "NOTES"
Example usage - When a service creates a device node, it may also create one
or more symlinks to the device node.  These symlinks may be the only stable
name for the device, e.g. if the partition is dynamically assigned.
The file label backend supports this by looking up the "best match"
for a device node based on its real path (\fIkey\fR) and any \fIlink\fRs to it
(aliases). The order of precedence for best match is described above.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selabel_open (3),
.BR selabel_stats (3),
.BR selinux_set_callback (3),
.BR selinux (8),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR selabel_file (5)
