.TH "selinux_restorecon_xattr" "3" "30 July 2016" "" "SELinux API documentation"

.SH "NAME"
selinux_restorecon_xattr \- manage default
.I security.sehash
extended attribute entries added by
.BR selinux_restorecon (3),
.BR setfiles (8)
or
.BR restorecon (8).

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/restorecon.h>
.sp
.BI "int selinux_restorecon_xattr(const char *" pathname ,
.in +\w'int selinux_restorecon('u
.br
.BI "unsigned int " xattr_flags ,
.br
.BI "struct dir_xattr ***" xattr_list ");"
.in
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR selinux_restorecon_xattr ()
returns a linked list of
.B dir_xattr
structures containing information described below based on:
.sp
.RS
.IR pathname
containing a directory tree to be searched for
.I security.sehash
extended attribute entries.
.sp
.IR xattr_flags
contains options as follows:
.sp
.RS
.sp
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_RECURSE
recursively descend directories.
.sp
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_DELETE_NONMATCH_DIGESTS
delete non-matching digests from each directory in
.IR pathname .
.sp
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_DELETE_ALL_DIGESTS
delete all digests from each directory in
.IR pathname .
.sp
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_IGNORE_MOUNTS
do not read
.B /proc/mounts
to obtain a list of non-seclabel mounts to be excluded from the search.
.br
Setting
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_IGNORE_MOUNTS
is useful where there is a non-seclabel fs mounted with a seclabel fs mounted
on a directory below this.
.RE
.sp
.I xattr_list
is the returned pointer to a linked list of
.B dir_xattr
structures, each containing the following information:
.sp
.RS
.ta 4n 16n 24n
.nf
struct dir_xattr {
	char *directory;
	char *digest;    /* Printable hex encoded string */
	enum digest_result result;
	struct dir_xattr *next;
};
.fi
.ta
.RE
.sp
The
.B result
entry is enumerated as follows:
.RS
.ta 4n 16n 24n
.nf
enum digest_result {
	MATCH = 0,
	NOMATCH,
	DELETED_MATCH,
	DELETED_NOMATCH,
	ERROR
};
.fi
.ta
.RE
.sp
.I xattr_list
must be set to
.B NULL
before calling
.BR selinux_restorecon_xattr (3).
The caller is responsible for freeing the returned
.I xattr_list
entries in the linked list.
.RE
.sp
See the
.B NOTES
section for more information.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

.SH "NOTES"
.IP "1." 4
By default
.BR selinux_restorecon_xattr (3)
will use the default set of specfiles described in
.BR files_contexts (5)
to calculate the SHA1 digests to be used for comparison.
To change this default behavior
.BR selabel_open (3)
must be called specifying the required
.B SELABEL_OPT_PATH
and setting the
.B SELABEL_OPT_DIGEST
option to a non-NULL value.
.BR selinux_restorecon_set_sehandle (3)
is then called to set the handle to be used by
.BR selinux_restorecon_xattr (3).
.IP "2." 4
By default
.BR selinux_restorecon_xattr (3)
reads
.B /proc/mounts
to obtain a list of non-seclabel mounts to be excluded from searches unless the
.B SELINUX_RESTORECON_XATTR_IGNORE_MOUNTS
flag has been set.
.IP "3." 4
.B RAMFS
and
.B TMPFS
filesystems do not support the
.IR security.sehash
extended attribute and are automatically excluded from searches.
.IP "4." 4
By default
.B stderr
is used to log output messages and errors. This may be changed by calling
.BR selinux_set_callback (3)
with the
.B SELINUX_CB_LOG
.I type
option.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux_restorecon (3)
.br
.BR selinux_restorecon_set_sehandle (3),
.br
.BR selinux_restorecon_default_handle (3),
.br
.BR selinux_restorecon_set_exclude_list (3),
.br
.BR selinux_restorecon_set_alt_rootpath (3),
.br
.BR selinux_set_callback (3)
