.TH "setfilecon" "3" "1 January 2004" "russell@coker.com.au" "SELinux API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
setfilecon, fsetfilecon, lsetfilecon \- set SELinux security context of a file
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <selinux/selinux.h>
.sp
.BI "int setfilecon(const char *" path ", char *" con );
.sp
.BI "int setfilecon_raw(const char *" path ", char *" con );
.sp
.BI "int lsetfilecon(const char *" path ", char *" con );
.sp
.BI "int lsetfilecon_raw(const char *" path ", char *" con );
.sp
.BI "int fsetfilecon(int "fd ", char *" con );
.sp
.BI "int fsetfilecon_raw(int "fd ", char *" con );
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR setfilecon ()
sets the security context of the file system object.

.BR lsetfilecon ()
is identical to setfilecon, except in the case of a symbolic link, where the
link itself has it's context set, not the file that it refers to.

.BR fsetfilecon ()
is identical to setfilecon, only the open file pointed to by filedes (as
returned by
.BR open (2))
has it's context set in place of path.

.BR setfilecon_raw (),
.BR lsetfilecon_raw (),
and
.BR fsetfilecon_raw ()
behave identically to their non-raw counterparts but do not perform context
translation.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned. On failure, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.
.SH "ERRORS"
If there is insufficient space remaining to store the extended
attribute,
.I errno
is set to either
.BR ENOSPC ,
or
.B EDQUOT
if quota enforcement was the cause.

If extended attributes are not supported by the filesystem, or are disabled,
.I errno
is set to
.BR ENOTSUP .

The errors documented for the
.BR stat (2)
system call are also applicable here.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR selinux "(3), " freecon "(3), " getfilecon "(3), " setfscreatecon "(3)"
