.TH "seusers" "5" "28-Nov-2011" "Security Enhanced Linux" "SELinux configuration"
.SH "NAME"
seusers \- The SELinux GNU/Linux user to SELinux user mapping configuration file
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.I seusers
file contains a list GNU/Linux user to SELinux user mapping for use by SELinux-aware login applications such as \fBPAM\fR(8).
.sp
.BR selinux_usersconf_path "(3) "
will return the active policy path to this file. The default SELinux users mapping file is located at:
.RS
.I /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/seusers
.RE
.sp
Where \fI{SELINUXTYPE}\fR is the entry from the selinux configuration file \fIconfig\fR (see \fBselinux_config\fR(5)).
.sp
.BR getseuserbyname "(3) reads this file to map a GNU/Linux user or group to an SELinux user. "
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Each line of the
.I seusers
configuration file consists of the following:
.sp
.RS
\fR[\fB%\fIgroup_id\fR]|[\fIuser_id\fR]\fB:\fIseuser_id\fR[\fB:\fIrange\fR]
.RE
.sp
Where:
.RS
\fIgroup_id\fR|\fIuser_id
.RS
\fRThe  GNU/Linux user id, or if preceded by the percentage (\fB%\fR) symbol, then a GNU/Linux group id.
.br
An optional entry set to \fB__default__\fR can be provided as a fall back if required.
.RE
.I seuser_id
.RS
The SELinux  user identity.
.RE
.I range
.RS
The optional level or range for an MLS/MCS policy.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
# ./seusers
.br
system_u:system_u:s0\-s15:c0.c255
.br
root:root:s0\-s15:c0.c255
.br
fred:user_u:s0
.br
__default__:user_u:s0
.br
%user_group:user_u:s0
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR selinux "(8), " PAM "(8), " selinux_usersconf_path "(3), " getseuserbyname "(3), " selinux_config "(5) "
