.TH semanage_del 3 "16 March 2006" "ivg2@cornell.edu" "Libsemanage API documentation"

.SH "NAME" 
semanage_del \- SELinux Management API

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
The following delete function is supported for any semanage record.
.br
Replace the function and object name as necessary.

.B extern int DELETE_FUNCTION (
.br
.BI "	semanage_handle_t *" handle ","
.br
.BI "	const semanage_OBJECT_key_t *" key ");"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.TP
.B Behavior:
The delete function will remove the object corresponding to the provided key from the local store. If no match is found, no action is taken. Changes will become permanent when  
.BR semanage_commit "(3)" 
is invoked. Additional checks may be performed at that time to ensure the system is left in a valid state. 

.TP
.B Parameters:
The 
.I handle
is used to track persistent state across semanage calls, and for error reporting. The
.I key 
identifies the 
.I data
object, which will be deleted from the local store. The key is a property of the caller, and will not be stored or modified internally.

.TP
.B Requirements:
This function requires an semanage connection to be established (see 
.BR semanage_connect "(3)"
), and must be executed in a transaction (see 
.BR semanage_begin_transaction "(3)"
).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
In case of failure, \-1 is returned, and the semanage error callback is invoked, describing the error.
Otherwise 0 is returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR semanage_handle_create "(3), " semanage_begin_transaction "(3), " semanage_connect "(3), " semanage_commit "(3). "
