.TH semanage_bool_set_local 3 "4 January 2006" "ivg2@cornell.edu" "Libsemanage API documentation"
.SH "NAME"
semanage_bool_set_active \- update an existing SELinux boolean in the currently active policy

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <semanage/booleans_active.h>
.br
.sp
.B extern int semanage_bool_set_active (
.br
.BI "	semanage_handle_t *" handle ","
.br
.BI "	const semanage_bool_key_t *" key ","
.br
.BI "	const semanage_bool_t *" data ");"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.TP
.B Behavior:
The set function will fail if no matching key is found in the local store. Otherwise, the provided object will replace the current one. When 
.BR semanage_commit "(3)" 
is invoked, changes will be written permanently into the local store, and will be loaded into policy. Validity of the object being added is checked at commit time. 

.TP
.B Parameters:
The 
.I handle
is used to track persistent state across semanage calls, and for error reporting. The
.I key 
identifies the 
.I data
object, which will be written into the store. The key are data are properties of the caller, and are not stored or modified internally.

.TP
.B Requirements:
This function requires an semanage connection to be established (see 
.BR semanage_connect "(3)"
), and must be executed in a transaction (see 
.BR semanage_begin_transaction "(3)"
).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
In case of failure, \-1 is returned, and the semanage error callback is invoked, describing the error.
Otherwise 0 is returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR semanage_handle_create "(3), " semanage_begin_transaction "(3), " semanage_connect "(3), " semanage_commit "(3). "
